<h1 align="center" id="title">Solving Problem 3</h1>

<p id="description">Finding the number of connected components in an undirected graph is a typical problem and based on the problem described above the "Number of islands" problem is a variation of that problem. As you are aware a graph consists of a collection of nodes connected by edges. Therefore a subgraph with every pair of nodes connected by a path is the connected component of an undirected graph (s). The connected graph elements are depicted in the image below. Using Depth First Search (DFS) on each component it is simple to solve the given problem. The Depth First Search Method is a recursive algorithm that searches all of the graph's nodes by advancing forward if a potential node is discovered and backtracking otherwise. A section of the undirect graph is visited when DFS is called. We will make another DFS call on the following unvisited component after the loop is finished. The total number of connected graph components is therefore determined by the number of DFS calls. When comparing the linked elements of an undirected graph to the "Number of islands" problem the "1s" (land) in the matrix will serve as the graph's node. On the matrix's "1s" we will run the depth-first search technique. Every matrix cell that has been visited is marked as a visited node by setting its value to "0" later on during the DFS call. Finally, add up the total number of DFS calls which represents the number of islands as each DFS call begins when a new island is discovered.</p>
